# Smart_Park
 Nowadays in India almost every second family owns a car, and due to rapid increase in population all the free space are decreasing due to rapid construction of residential complexes and industries in cities, which leads to decrease in space for parking.
Due to this, every car driver wastes on average about 100 hours a year looking for a parking space, which accounts for one third of city center traffic. What if we could provide a sensor-controller parking management system that helps optimize the use of urban parking facilities and substantially reduce the congestion caused by motorists searching for a space: our Smart Parking Solutions.
Our Smart Parking Solution will use the full potential of digitalization: Ultrasonic sensors, RFID tags and clever analysis of the available data with the help of cloud computing and IOT in an app based environment. The system eliminates unnecessary parking-related traffic and ensures optimum utilization of urban parking facilities. This saves time, reduces the environmental impact of traffic and improves the quality of life in the city.
Our team has devised an idea of Smart parking solution which will help all the drivers out there to find a secure and perfect spot in an IOT controlled parking lot which will be in accordance with their vehicle type. Be it a four/six seater car. We will provide each vehicle with a RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) Tags which will act as the personal id of vehicle for recognizing in our database. The cars RFID tags will be given after human verification of the proper documents of the car by its owner. They will have to provide a mobile number and email id for receiving OTP which will be required while listing car inside our app.

 We will provide the customers with a mobile app which will help them in finding nearest parking lot according to space availability in that lot and the size/type of the car. All the parking lots geo-location will be saved in our cloud database with real time space availability check. There will be an option to book a space in the nearest location for the user to be sure he will get the desired space without any hassle, but in order to do so he will have to pay a small sum of money which will be calculated from his distance from the chosen parking lot. Real time space availability will be done via ultrasonic sensors and the output of the sensor will be sent to our cloud server via a Raspberry pi module. 
When a customer enters a parking lot he will be assigned a particular spot in the parking lot which will be calculated by our algorithm, this spot will be the nearest available spot from entry gate of the parking lot and will be in accordance with the type of car. When the user would have successfully parked his vehicle he will be asked to confirm about his parked status in our app and thus the time of the parking will be logged in our servers. When the user will vacate the parking space he/she will have to update their current status. This will log them in our database to calculate the parking fare of the vehicle depending upon the duration multiplied with the base fare (base fare will be predefined on the particular car type). 

The user can pay the parking fare via e-wallet or in cash at the gate to the security personnel present at that time. A separate app will be provided to each security personnel for the purpose of fare collection and to speculate any kind of suspicious or unauthorized thing that he may have found in the car during the security check. One of the key features of this method would be that when the person enters the parking lot both the user and the security personnel will be logging the entry in database which will then work as a two step verification to avoid stealing of the car from the parking lot.

